so I have a choice as a psychiatrist I
can see four people and prescribe four
medications and make six hundred bucks
an hour or I can talk to one person
about their feelings and make 200 bucks
an hour right that's the world we live
in and it's not good enough like we
can't use our standard solutions anymore
we have to think outside of the box and
we have to face the challenges that
there are which is like AoE healing
that's what this is about
I want to say anonymous how to deal with
climate change in the possibility of
societal and economic collapse in the
mid far future I'm horribly depressed
because of it and I in so much pain I
feel horrible for wanting to have
children and possibly putting them into
this world okay so I you know oddly
enough I I get this fair amount like in
my actual private practice like people
come to me and they're kind of say they
feel depressed because of like what the
future holds so okay how can I say this
so like if so either societal or
economic collapse is gonna happen so
there are three possibilities right one
is that societal or economic collapse is
gonna happen the second is that it's not
going to happen and the third is that it
may happen so my response to this person
is like which of those so if you feel
like it's inevitable first of all like
where do you get that because I don't
think that's the case I mean people have
been you know foreseeing economic
collapse apocalypse and stuff since like
as long as people got together and
talked about this stuff right and so you
know I I don't know I think human beings
are like really bad at predicting the
future generally speaking like if we
just look at it historically there have
been people who have been concerned
about the collapse of humanity since
humanity became a thing so I think that
there's some you know evidence to kind
of question your thoughts or beliefs
there the second thing is that if it is
inevitable then I don't know exactly
what that means I guess you have to sort
of sort that out for yourself but my
sense is that if you think that the
world is like destined for failure then
I think that you know what are you gonna
do about it
is my first question so I think this is
like this is a question about Dharma so
if you think that societal and economic
collapse are like gonna happen like what
are you gonna do about it so you can
sort of say like oh the world is falling
apart woe is me and I'm gonna feel
depressed but I think that the world
falls apart or whether things like fall
apart or don't fall apart depends on
like your actions and like mine depends
on my actions and it depends on like
twitch
that's actions right like that's what
we're here for we're I mean like we're
here to sort of help ourselves we're
here to help you know we're here to like
help the world and make it a better
place and so if you think that the world
is like going to hell in a handbasket my
first thought is like what are you gonna
do about it
because in my experience if you have a
problem and listen to this carefully if
you have a problem and you start trying
to do something about that problem and
you start making progress then you will
be amazed at how that affects your
depression there's actually good
evidence that there's something called
behavioral activation which is an
evidence-based treatment for depression
and what behavioral activation is is
it's like getting people to go out and
do things behavioral activation is about
the presumption that therapy and
medication is not the only way that you
can help people who are depressed but if
you can get them to like go and do stuff
if you can activate their behavior then
their depression will get better so if
you're depressed because you think the
world is gonna fall apart like try to do
something about it and you'll be amazed
at like what difference that makes for
your depression and maybe the world
won't collapse because of what you do
right it's kind of like just go and do
something so I'd say like go plant a
tree like if you're worried about
climate change go plant a treat like if
things are screwed and we're all dead
anyway at least there's one more tree
around who knows and maybe that one tree
is gonna be what tips the balance and
prevents us from like cycling into a you
know horrible like carbon emissions
spiral where like ice is melting and
more trapped co2 gets released and all
that crap and then it's sort of a
doomsday scenario I don't know but I'd
say do something this stream is because
I feel like young people and that's what
what is that a Boomer statement or what
but like I'm serious young people
nowadays nowadays are feeling stuck in
directionless and I don't think it's
their fault to be very clear so I think
that like the reason that a lot of
people are disillusioned today is
because we were told by the generation
above us that there is a particular road
to success right they said go to college
get a job
you with one income you can get a
mortgage because this is what worked for
us so this is the formula for success
and all you guys need to do is like do
this thing and everything will be ok but
the circumstances that they lived in in
the circumstances that we live in are
different right like the percentage the
hours that you needed to work after you
graduated from college to pay back your
loans is like a fraction of what it is
today
the prices of homes back then were like
way cheaper than they are now relative
to standard income and the other thing
is like college degrees are not worth
nearly as much as they used to be right
so like now it's like you see an
intro-level position for $30,000 a year
that requires 4 that's recommends 4
years of work experience it's like
that's an entry-level position you're
paying 30k year and you want 4 years of
work experience like that's that's what
we face right so you know I mean with my
parents so they sort of said my dad told
us one of y'all is gonna be a doctor and
one day all is gonna be a lawyer and my
brother is older so he got to choose
first and then after that we you know so
I became a doctor and they sort of said
like oh the way to be happy is to like
just become a doctor and so I said ok
fine and so I majored in pre-med but
like I didn't care about it right like I
just couldn't like it felt completely
meaningless to me to just go and like
get some job and be a doctor and like go
out and like sure is ego behind saving
lives but that's what it was about it's
like I'm gonna be a doctor and then oh
yeah I say lives oh that's how it is
right I didn't really care about it and
so I think the challenges that we face
are different and I think that in the
generation before us you could sort of
live your life and you know you could
get a job and you had like a pension
that your company would like pay out 30
years from now like you could get a job
at one company you could be an employee
at that company for your entire life and
they would actually take care of you
when you retired and you could just get
a job and you could have a family in a
white picket fence and everything was
hunky-dory
but like I think the world demands more
of us today than it did in the past I
think these issues like climate change
and societal and economic collapse
require more of the average person in
terms of a contribution than like the
past like people needed to do in the
past I think in order to create a better
world for all human beings today
it requires all human beings to pitch in
and that involves planting trees and
involves like that's the birth of this
stream was about like ok this is not
working right like mental health is not
working there are challenges that people
face their wait list if you see
therapists there are people who feel
disillusioned there are people who go to
see therapists and they get diagnosed
with depression they get given a pill
and sent home because currently the the
compensation structure of medicine is to
prescribe as much medication as you can
if you're a psychiatrist if you want to
make the most money insurance pays about
two hundred dollars for me to sit with
someone on average for one hour and talk
to them about their feelings and try to
help them understand themselves
insurance also pays me $150 to spend 15
minutes with that same person and
prescribed them a medication so I have a
choice as a psychiatrist I can see four
people and prescribe four medications
and make 600 bucks an hour or I can talk
to one person about their feelings and
make 200 bucks an hour right that's the
world we live in and it's not good
enough like we can't use our standard
solutions anymore we have to think
outside of the box and we have to face
the challenges that there are which is
like AoE healing that's what this is
about
because the challenges that people face
nowadays are different it's like back in
my day I used to get bullied but you
know the cool thing is about being
bullied in school like when I was
growing up in the 80s and early 90s is
when you're done with school you get to
go home and the bully doesn't chase you
now with like social media like if
you're getting bullied at school like
what do you think happens to your
Twitter account and Instagram account
like people are trashing you on that too
you can't escape from the bullies now
the world is a different place and it
needs like different solutions and so I
get that you feel horribly too
and that's absolutely like it's a
reasonable response and I'm not blaming
you for feeling that way but I think if
we if humanity has any chance of coming
out of this mess it's gonna be because
of people like you actually doing
something because of people like me
actually doing something and I have
faith that if we I have faith at the end
of the day in despite you know what
happened last week on on when I tried to
hop on discord and I put my faith in
humanity and I put my faith in twitch
and and someone let me down but I still
have faith in you guys I still have
faith in y'all
[Music]